This video is about how to get help when
learning to use R and taking this course.
Because of the size of the course and
the number of students that are enrolled,
it's going to be difficult to be asking
lots of questions on a one on one basis.
And so we're going to have to resort to a
few other tools to get questions answered,
in particular, the discussion boards and
generally through email.
And so with a certain type of way to
ask questions that I hope to maximize
the chance of you getting the right answer
or the answer that you're looking for.
And so, the main thing to remember is
that asking questions via email is
a little bit different from
asking questions in person.
You don't necessarily know that the people
on the other side, the people that you're
asking, for example, on a discussion
board or on a mailing list, you
don't necessarily know that they have the
same background information that you have.
Furthermore, they may not
know you personally and
so may not know kind of what you mean
when you say certain types of things.
So that's kind of important to keep in
mind when you're emailing questions
as opposed to when you're
talking to someone in person.
Keep in mind, of course, that elder people
are very busy, and their time is limited,
and although they may be willing to
help you by answering a question,
they may only have a certain amount of
time to devote to answering that question.
Now I am here, of course,
as the instructor, to help you in all
circumstances, but furthermore, I may not
be able to answer all possible questions.
And so you're going to want to use the
resources that you have available to you
in this course.
So, in your search for answers, there
are a variety of things that you can do
on your own before venturing off to
ask other people for the answer.
So, if you're going to be emailing a
question to a forum or to a mailing list,
it's important that you search the
archives of that forum for the answers.
So it's possible, and
depending on the size of the forum,
almost very likely that someone has asked
the same question that you're asking.
And if someone else has asked that
question, and it has been answered,
then the answer is going to be
in the archive of that forum.
So if the answer's already there, you've
saved everyone a lot of time, including
yourself, if you search the archives for
the forum and just find the answer.
Of course, the web is very large and
has many answers, and
your first reaction when you have
a question is to search the web.
For given the type of program you're
using, for example, here we're using R,
there are many manuals that are available,
and many answers may exist in the manual.
There's a frequently asked question,
or a FAQ that's on the R website that
you can look for that contains many
questions that are commonly come up on
the mailing lists and on the forums.
Another thing that you might
want to try to do before go
venturing out to ask people for the answer
is to play around with the problem and
try to find the answer by inspecting or
experimentations.
Maybe if you have a function that's not
working right, maybe change the inputs and
see if the outputs change or
if the error message changes.
If you're lucky enough to have a skilled
friend who knows something about R,
you can ask them personally, and
it's usually easier to ask a person
on a one on one basis than to email
a group of people in a forum.
Furthermore, and lastly,
if you're a programmer,
you maybe able to find the answers you're
looking for by reading the source code.
So all the things in the previous
slide are useful things to do
on your own before venturing
out to ask people questions.
However, if you don't find the answer,
it's important to let
other people know that you did all those
other things on the previous slide.
Because if, for example, the answer in
the documentation for the programs, for
example, it's in one of the R
manuals that someone who knows
the answer will usually respond by saying
read the documentation or read the manual.
And then you just wasted
one round of email.
because, you'll have to respond saying,
I did read the manual, and
I didn't find the answer there.
And so, letting people know that
you've done your homework, and
you've looked in a variety of places is
very useful, and it saves a lot of time.
So, here's a very simple example of
what might happen as you're using R.
So, here I'm loading
the data source package, and
then I'm going to load the air
quality data source from that package.
And then I'm going to want to
run the correlation function
on this air quality data frame.
So immediately, I get an error,
it says error in cor(airquality) :
missing observations in cov/cor.
So you might be wondering well, why am I
getting this error, what does it mean?
So the first thing you
can do is go to Google.
And in many circumstances,
Google's going to be your friend.
And this is no different when you're
learning a new programming language or
when you're learning R.
And so, the easiest thing to do is to
take the error message that you get and
literally cut and
paste it into the search box for Google.
When I search on that,
I get a number of results.
And particularly,
this third result looks very promising.
It looks like someone asked this
question on the R help mailing list, and
so maybe we're clicking on that to see
if someone replied with the answer.
So, when you ask a questions
on a mailing list, so
assuming that Google wasn't
able to help you out,
if you're going to ask a question on the
discussion board or on the mailing list,
there are a couple things that you need to
think about before you ask that question.
First, is it possible to
reproduce your problem?
So, if someone else can reproduce your
problem, it makes it a lot easier for
that other person to figure out
what the solution is going to be.
And so if you can provide some code or
a very simple example that will reproduce
your problem, this will be enormously
useful to everyone else involved.
And if you don't do this, typically, the
first response that you'll get will be,
can you please provide
a reproducible example?
Second, it's important to understand
what you expect the output to be,
because if your expectation is wrong,
then of course, it may or
may not be an error, depending on
what your expectation should be.
So what you expect the output to be
will indicate kind of what the nature of
the error and what needs to be solved.
And then given your expectation, you need
to say, well, what do you see instead?
So what was the thing that was
unexpected that gave you the question?
Other information that's important to
specify when you're asking a question
is the version of the product
you're using, so for example,
what version of R are you using?
What version of the R
packages you're using,
if it's specific to a given package?
Because often there may be legitimate bugs
in older versions of R or R packages,
and your problem might be solvable if
you just upgrade to the latest version.
So if you're using the latest version
of R, it's important to mention that.
Sometimes it's important to know what
operating system you're using, so
whether you're using a Mac, or Windows,
or Linux, or some other UNIX machine.
Some problems can be traced to the type
of operating system that you're using.
And depending on
the question that you have,
there may be additional information
that you need to provide.
So when you send an email to a forum or
to a discussion board,
it's important to get as much useful
information in there as possible.
And this includes the subject line for
the email.
So there's a couple of examples of subject
lines that could range in usefulness.
So the first one is probably
the least useful, it just says Help!
Can't fit linear model!
So here,
there's very little information here.
All I know is that there's some
problem with linear models.
I don't know anything else about
what the user's problem is.
So the second version is much better,
it tells me that on R version 2.15.0,
the lm() function produces a seg fault,
which meaning that R crashes,
with a large data frame.
And furthermore,
it says I'm using Mac OS 10.6.3.
So here, I've got the operating system,
the version of the operating system,
I've got the version of R,
I've got what function I'm using, and I've
got a summary of what actually happened.
So just a little bit smarter than that
would just be to reformat the message, so
that I specify what version
of R I'm using, the function,
and then the version of
the operating system.
And then so that gives me the context,
and then after that, I can say
what the problem was, which in this case,
was a seg fault on a large data frame.
So here, the important
details are right away put in
the subject header before I even
get to the body of the message.
So, a couple things that you definitely
want to do when you're asking a question
on a forum or a mailing list, first is
to describe the goal, not the steps.
So you may have many,
many steps that you're going through, and
maybe one of those steps
is causing a problem.
It's useful for other people to know what
the bigger picture is in terms of what
you're trying to do, because for example,
they might have a better idea about how to
go about achieving that goal,
which may be faster or simpler, and
may work around whatever
problem you're having.
So, describe the ultimate goal, and
then talk about what the problems are.
And don't just narrow it down to
the one little step that you're having
a problem with.
Be explicit about your questions.
So remember, provide details
about what you're trying to do.
And you have to provide the minimum
amount of information necessary, so
not the maximum amount of information,
the minimum amount of information.
And so it's common to see on some
mailing lists posts that lots of
output is produced, and
that's not very helpful.
because volume doesn't really help you
in terms of diagnosing the problem.
You need to know exactly, to narrow down
kind of where the problem is going to be.
So, and of course a couple of things,
being courteous never hurts anyone.
And promoting civility on mailing
lists is always a nice thing.
And if you find the solution later on,
it's useful for
everyone else in the community if
you follow up with the solution and
explain kind of what the problem was and
how you solved it.
A couple of things you definitely do
not want to do when posting to a forum,
you don't want to claim
that you've found a bug.
This happens all the time, and
usually, I'd say 99 times out of 100,
it's not a bug, and
it's just a misunderstanding about what
should have happened, so
a mistake in the expectations of the user.
Grovelling is a substitute for
doing your homework,
that's not usually looked well upon,
and you definitely shouldn't do that.
Definitely don't want to post homework
questions on the mailing list or forums,
and the reason is because people who write
the homework questions are reading those
mailing lists and will be able to identify
all homework questions without a doubt.
So we've seen them all,
don't bother trying to get the answers
to your homework on mailing lists.
Don't ever email multiple
mailing lists at once.
So this is a little bit annoying,
because people will subscribe to different
mailing lists and will be getting
your message more than one time.
It's important to figure out which mailing
list is the most appropriate mailing list
for your question and then send
the message to that mailing list or forum.
And then lastly, don't ask others to debug
your code without giving some sort of hint
as to what the problem might be.
So it's very difficult when a person
posts a long listing of code and
says there's a problem in here somewhere,
I don't know where, please help.
It's better to kind of specify
where you think the problem is and
what you're trying to do, so
that everyone can save some time.
So this is just a very brief case
study on using a recent post to
the R-devel mailing list.
So, the R-devel mailing
list is an email list for
people who are doing development work in
R, so either they're developing packages,
or they're making modifications
to the R source code itself.
And so
the subject was, so you can see from the
subject that it's going to be a problem.
The subject is large dataset- confused.
So right away, you know that there's not
that much information here to go on.
It's not clear what the problem is.
In the message, it says,
I'm trying to load a dataset into R, but
I'm completely lost.
This is probably due mostly to the fact
that I'm a complete R noob, but
it's got me stuck in a research project.
So you have to ask yourself,
what do I know about this person's
problem from reading this message?
And the truth is very little, and so
the response was somewhat predictable.
Basically, the first person
response said yes, you are lost.
And then there is a pointer to the posting
guide, which everyone should read before
sending an email to the mailing list,
and then also a list of manuals.
And so, here, you can see that one
round of email is immediately wasted,
because probably the answer to
the question was in one of the manuals,
and so, the user didn't specify whether
he or she had already done that.
So, in terms of what went wrong with
this little exchange, first, of course,
the question was sent to
simply the wrong mailing list.
The R-devel mailing list is for
development questions and for
more sophisticated programmers.
It's not really a mailing list for
questions for,
as this person stated, noobs.
So that question really should have
gone to the R-help mailing list,
where it would have been better received.
However, in addition to that,
the email subject was very vague,
it was not clear what the problem was.
The question itself was very vague.
There was no reproducible example there.
There was not possible for
other people who are reading the email to
reproduce what that person's problem was.
And there was no evidence that any
effort was made to solve the problem.
So there is no evidence that they searched
the web or checked the manuals or
experimented with the problem, or anything
like that, or even looked at the forums.
And so, the end result was
a complete recipe for disaster, and
it's likely that this person did not
get the answer to their question.
So a couple places to turn for
this course, first of all,
the class discussion board I think will
be the most useful because your fellow
students can help you out there, and I can
respond to you on the discussion board.
Outside of class, there's the R help
mailing list, which I just described.
And you can post to this mailing list
as well, and it's useful to, of course,
follow all the rules that
we talked about just now.
And depending on what other
products you might be working on,
there are other project-specific mailing
lists for other types of software.
And so this talk was inspired by
Eric Raymond's posting called,
How to ask questions the smart way,
and I encourage you to read that.
It's much longer,
it has a lot of other useful tips.